README.md, before:

## Trongate v1 - Documentation (Markdown)

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Trongate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Trongate-grey.svg)](https://trongate.io)
[![Trongate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Framework-v1-purple.svg)](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-framework)
[![Trongate](https://img.shields.io/badge/html-v1-green.svg)](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-docs)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-markdown-orange.svg)](https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md)

> **LLM-friendly Markdown conversion of the official Trongate v1 HTML documentation**

This repository provides the complete Trongate v1 documentation converted from HTML to a clean, well-structured Markdown format. Designed for seamless integration with AI tools, vector databases, static site generators, and modern documentation workflows.

---

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Overview](#-overview)
- [Features](#-features)
- [Repository Structure](#-repository-structure)
- [Getting Started](#-getting-started)
- [Use Cases](#-use-cases)
- [Conversion Process](#-conversion-process)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [Status](#-status)
- [Resources](#-resources)
- [License](#-license)

---

## 🎯 Overview

The Trongate framework's official documentation is maintained in HTML format. This project converts those HTML files into Markdown, making the documentation more accessible for:

- **AI/LLM Integration**: RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) systems, vector databases, and semantic search
- **Documentation Platforms**: GitHub Pages, MkDocs, Docusaurus, VuePress, and other static site generators
- **Custom Tooling**: MCPs, search indexing, and custom documentation systems

**Note**: This repository focuses on Trongate v1 documentation, while [Trongate v2 documentation can be found here.](https://trongate.io/documentation)

---

## ✨ Features

- **Complete Coverage**: All major Trongate v1 documentation sections converted
- **Structured Collections**: Organised by logical groupings matching the official documentation structure
- **Clean Formatting**: Proper heading hierarchy, code blocks, and markdown conventions
- **LLM-Optimised**: Formatted for optimal consumption by language models and AI tools

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
trongate-docs-md/
├── php_framework/     # Core PHP framework documentation
├── reference/         # API reference and technical specifications
├── trongate_css/      # CSS framework and styling documentation
├── trongate_mx/       # Trongate MX (HTMX-style) JavaScript library docs
├── LICENSE            # MIT License
└── README.md          # This file
```

Each directory contains converted Markdown files organised by topic, maintaining the same logical structure as the official documentation.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Git for cloning the repository
- A Markdown viewer or editor (VS Code, Obsidian, Typora, etc.)
- Optional: Static site generator (MkDocs, Docusaurus) for publishing

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md.git

# Navigate to the directory
cd trongate-docs-md

# Browse the documentation
ls -la
```

### Usage

**For Reading:**

- Open any `.md` file in your preferred Markdown viewer
- Navigate through directories to find specific topics

**For Integration:**

- Import into your vector database for RAG applications
- Use with MCP servers like [Context 7](https://context7.com/dafa66/trongate-docs-md)

**For Development:**

- Reference while building Trongate applications
- Integrate into IDE documentation systems
- Use for offline development reference

---

## 💡 Use Cases

### AI & Machine Learning

- **Vector Databases**: Embed documentation for semantic search and RAG systems
- **LLM Context**: Provide framework knowledge to AI coding assistants
- **Training Data**: Use as training material for Trongate-specific models

### Documentation Publishing

- **Static Sites**: Deploy with MkDocs, Docusaurus, or VuePress
- **GitHub Pages**: Publish directly from this repository
- **Custom Platforms**: Integrate with any Markdown-based documentation system

### Development Workflows

- **Offline Reference**: Access documentation without internet connection
- **IDE Integration**: Link documentation directly in your development environment
- **Version Tracking**: Monitor documentation changes alongside code

---

## 🔄 Conversion Process

The conversion pipeline follows these steps:

1. **Source Extraction**: HTML files retrieved from the [Trongate docs repository](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-docs)
2. **Collection Mapping**: Files organised using `docs_collections.json` structure
3. **HTML to Markdown**: Automated conversion with custom transformations for:
   - Code blocks and syntax highlighting
   - Alert boxes and callouts
   - Tables and lists
   - Images and embedded media
   - Internal and external links
4. **Post-Processing**:
   - Heading normalisation
   - Acronym casing corrections
   - Link validation
   - Formatting consistency checks
5. **Quality Review**: Manual verification of complex pages

> [!NOTE]
> The conversion emphasises automation with minimal manual editing. However, complex pages with multi-column layouts, interactive content, or embedded examples may require human review for optimal results.

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here's how you can help:

### Areas for Contribution

- **Conversion Improvements**: Fix edge cases in tables, code blocks, or embedded assets
- **Automation**: Build CI/CD pipelines for automatic conversion
- **Documentation**: Improve this README or add usage examples
- **Quality Assurance**: Review converted files and report issues
- **Tooling**: Create scripts for validation, formatting, or publishing

### How to Contribute

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/improvement`)
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Commit with clear messages (`git commit -m 'Fix: table conversion in API reference'`)
6. Push to your fork (`git push origin feature/improvement`)
7. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📊 Status

| Component          | Status         | Notes                        |
| ------------------ | -------------- | ---------------------------- |
| PHP Framework Docs | ✅ Complete    | Base conversion finished     |
| API Reference      | ✅ Complete    | Base conversion finished     |
| Trongate CSS       | ✅ Complete    | Base conversion finished     |
| Trongate MX        | ✅ Complete    | Base conversion finished     |
| Manual Cleanup     | ⚠️ In Progress | Complex pages need review    |
| Automated Pipeline | 🔄 Planned     | Scheduled for future release |

> [!WARNING]
> Some pages with complex HTML structures, screenshots, or non-standard markup may still require manual cleanup. Please report any formatting issues you encounter.

---

## 🔗 Resources

### Official Trongate Resources

- **Website**: [trongate.io](https://trongate.io/)
- **Official Documentation**: [trongate.io/documentation](https://trongate.io/documentation)
- **Framework Repository**: [github.com/trongate/trongate-framework](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-framework)
- **HTML Docs Source**: [github.com/trongate/trongate-docs](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-docs)

### Community Documentation Projects

- **HTML Docs Viewer**: [dafadev.net/a1/tgdocs](https://dafadev.net/a1/tgdocs)
  - may not always be available to view online
- **MkDocs Implementation**: [ums.myds.me/tg_docs/](https://ums.myds.me/tg_docs/)

### This Project

- **Repository**: [github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md](https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md)
- **Issues**: [Report bugs or request features](https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md/issues)

---

## 📄 License

This repository is released under the **MIT License**. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for full details.

The original Trongate documentation and framework are subject to their own licensing terms. Please refer to the [official Trongate repository](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-framework) for more information.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

- **Trongate Team**: For creating and maintaining the excellent framework and documentation
- **Community Contributors**: For feedback, bug reports, and improvements
- **Original HTML Docs**: Sourced from the [Trongate docs repository](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-docs)

---

<div align="center">

**Questions or suggestions?** [Open an issue](https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md/issues) or contribute to the project!

Made with ❤️ for the Trongate community

</div>

Commit message:

Add Context 7 chat and API link to README

README.md, after:

## Trongate v1 - Documentation (Markdown)

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Trongate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Trongate-grey.svg)](https://trongate.io)
[![Trongate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Framework-v1-purple.svg)](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-framework)
[![Trongate](https://img.shields.io/badge/html-v1-green.svg)](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-docs)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-markdown-orange.svg)](https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md)

> **LLM-friendly Markdown conversion of the official Trongate v1 HTML documentation**

This repository provides the complete Trongate v1 documentation converted from HTML to a clean, well-structured Markdown format. Designed for seamless integration with AI tools, vector databases, static site generators, and modern documentation workflows.

---

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Overview](#-overview)
- [Features](#-features)
- [Repository Structure](#-repository-structure)
- [Getting Started](#-getting-started)
- [Use Cases](#-use-cases)
- [Conversion Process](#-conversion-process)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [Status](#-status)
- [Resources](#-resources)
- [License](#-license)

---

## 🎯 Overview

The Trongate framework's official documentation is maintained in HTML format. This project converts those HTML files into Markdown, making the documentation more accessible for:

- **AI/LLM Integration**: RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) systems, vector databases, and semantic search
- **Documentation Platforms**: GitHub Pages, MkDocs, Docusaurus, VuePress, and other static site generators
- **Custom Tooling**: MCPs, search indexing, and custom documentation systems

**Note**: This repository focuses on Trongate v1 documentation, while [Trongate v2 documentation can be found here.](https://trongate.io/documentation)

---

## ✨ Features

- **Complete Coverage**: All major Trongate v1 documentation sections converted
- **Structured Collections**: Organised by logical groupings matching the official documentation structure
- **Clean Formatting**: Proper heading hierarchy, code blocks, and markdown conventions
- **LLM-Optimised**: Formatted for optimal consumption by language models and AI tools

---

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
trongate-docs-md/
├── php_framework/     # Core PHP framework documentation
├── reference/         # API reference and technical specifications
├── trongate_css/      # CSS framework and styling documentation
├── trongate_mx/       # Trongate MX (HTMX-style) JavaScript library docs
├── LICENSE            # MIT License
└── README.md          # This file
```

Each directory contains converted Markdown files organised by topic, maintaining the same logical structure as the official documentation.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Git for cloning the repository
- A Markdown viewer or editor (VS Code, Obsidian, Typora, etc.)
- Optional: Static site generator (MkDocs, Docusaurus) for publishing

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md.git

# Navigate to the directory
cd trongate-docs-md

# Browse the documentation
ls -la
```

### Usage

**For Reading:**

- Open any `.md` file in your preferred Markdown viewer
- Navigate through directories to find specific topics

**For Integration:**

- Import into your vector database for RAG applications
- Use with MCP servers like [Context 7](https://context7.com/dafa66/trongate-docs-md)

**For Development:**

- Reference while building Trongate applications
- Integrate into IDE documentation systems
- Use for offline development reference

---

## 💡 Use Cases

### AI & Machine Learning

- **Vector Databases**: Embed documentation for semantic search and RAG systems
- **LLM Context**: Provide framework knowledge to AI coding assistants
- **Training Data**: Use as training material for Trongate-specific models

### Documentation Publishing

- **Static Sites**: Deploy with MkDocs, Docusaurus, or VuePress
- **GitHub Pages**: Publish directly from this repository
- **Custom Platforms**: Integrate with any Markdown-based documentation system

### Development Workflows

- **Offline Reference**: Access documentation without internet connection
- **IDE Integration**: Link documentation directly in your development environment
- **Version Tracking**: Monitor documentation changes alongside code

---

## 🔄 Conversion Process

The conversion pipeline follows these steps:

1. **Source Extraction**: HTML files retrieved from the [Trongate docs repository](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-docs)
2. **Collection Mapping**: Files organised using `docs_collections.json` structure
3. **HTML to Markdown**: Automated conversion with custom transformations for:
   - Code blocks and syntax highlighting
   - Alert boxes and callouts
   - Tables and lists
   - Images and embedded media
   - Internal and external links
4. **Post-Processing**:
   - Heading normalisation
   - Acronym casing corrections
   - Link validation
   - Formatting consistency checks
5. **Quality Review**: Manual verification of complex pages

> [!NOTE]
> The conversion emphasises automation with minimal manual editing. However, complex pages with multi-column layouts, interactive content, or embedded examples may require human review for optimal results.

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here's how you can help:

### Areas for Contribution

- **Conversion Improvements**: Fix edge cases in tables, code blocks, or embedded assets
- **Automation**: Build CI/CD pipelines for automatic conversion
- **Documentation**: Improve this README or add usage examples
- **Quality Assurance**: Review converted files and report issues
- **Tooling**: Create scripts for validation, formatting, or publishing

### How to Contribute

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/improvement`)
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Commit with clear messages (`git commit -m 'Fix: table conversion in API reference'`)
6. Push to your fork (`git push origin feature/improvement`)
7. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📊 Status

| Component          | Status         | Notes                        |
| ------------------ | -------------- | ---------------------------- |
| PHP Framework Docs | ✅ Complete    | Base conversion finished     |
| API Reference      | ✅ Complete    | Base conversion finished     |
| Trongate CSS       | ✅ Complete    | Base conversion finished     |
| Trongate MX        | ✅ Complete    | Base conversion finished     |
| Manual Cleanup     | ⚠️ In Progress | Complex pages need review    |
| Automated Pipeline | 🔄 Planned     | Scheduled for future release |

> [!WARNING]
> Some pages with complex HTML structures, screenshots, or non-standard markup may still require manual cleanup. Please report any formatting issues you encounter.

---

## 🔗 Resources

### Official Trongate Resources

- **Website**: [trongate.io](https://trongate.io/)
- **Official Documentation**: [trongate.io/documentation](https://trongate.io/documentation)
- **Framework Repository**: [github.com/trongate/trongate-framework](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-framework)
- **HTML Docs Source**: [github.com/trongate/trongate-docs](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-docs)

### Community Documentation Projects

- **HTML Docs Viewer**: [dafadev.net/a1/tgdocs](https://dafadev.net/a1/tgdocs)
  - may not always be available to view online
- **MkDocs Implementation**: [ums.myds.me/tg_docs/](https://ums.myds.me/tg_docs/)
- **Chat with the docs or use via an API or MCP**: [Context 7](https://context7.com/dafa66/trongate-docs-md)

### This Project

- **Repository**: [github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md](https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md)
- **Issues**: [Report bugs or request features](https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md/issues)

---

## 📄 License

This repository is released under the **MIT License**. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for full details.

The original Trongate documentation and framework are subject to their own licensing terms. Please refer to the [official Trongate repository](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-framework) for more information.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

- **Trongate Team**: For creating and maintaining the excellent framework and documentation
- **Community Contributors**: For feedback, bug reports, and improvements
- **Original HTML Docs**: Sourced from the [Trongate docs repository](https://github.com/trongate/trongate-docs)

---

<div align="center">

**Questions or suggestions?** [Open an issue](https://github.com/DaFa66/trongate-docs-md/issues) or contribute to the project!

Made with ❤️ for the Trongate community

</div>
